README.rst, before:

=================
Sphinx CSV Filter
=================

A Sphinx_ plugin that extends the csv-table_ reStructuredText_ directive to add
row filtering options.

Prerequisites
=============

You need to be using Sphinx and reStructuredText.

Installation
============

The Sphinx CSV filter plugin is available as a pip_ package.

To install, run::

    $ pip install sphinx-csv-filter

To update, run::

    $ pip install -U sphinx-csv-filter

Set Up
======

To include the extension, add this line to ``config.py`` in
your Sphinx project::

    extensions = ['crate.sphinx.csv']

If you're using other extensions, edit the existing list, or add this::

    extensions.append('crate.sphinx.csv')

Use
===

This plugin adds the following options to the csv-table_ directive:

``:included_cols:``
    This is a comma-separated list of column indexes to include in the output.

``:include:``
    This option takes a Python dict specifying the column index (starting at
    zero) and a regular expression. Rows are included if the columnar value
    matches the supplied regular expression.

``:exclude:``
    This option takes a Python dict specifying the column index (starting at
    zero) and a regular expression. Rows are excluded if the columnar value
    matches the supplied regular expression.

If a row matches an ``:include:`` as well as an ``:exclude:`` filter, the row
with be excluded.

Here's an example::

    .. csv-filter:: Example Table
       :header: Company,Contact,Country,Attend?
       :file: example.csv
       :exclude: {3: '(?i)Y\w*'}

In this example, rows from ``example.csv`` will be omitted from the output if the regular expression ``(?i)Y\w*`` matches value of the ``Attend?`` column.

Contributing
============

This project is primarily maintained by Crate.io_, but we welcome community
contributions!

See the `developer docs`_ and the `contribution docs`_ for more information.

Help
====

Looking for more help?

- Check out our `support channels`_

.. _contribution docs: CONTRIBUTING.rst
.. _Crate.io: http://crate.io/
.. _csv-table: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#csv-table
.. _developer docs: DEVELOP.rst
.. _pip: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip
.. _reStructuredText: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/rest.html
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/
.. _support channels: https://crate.io/support/

Commit message:

Fix :include: filter to require all patterns to match. Fix stacktrace on empty cells.

README.rst, after:

=================
Sphinx CSV Filter
=================

A Sphinx_ plugin that extends the csv-table_ reStructuredText_ directive to add
row filtering options.

Prerequisites
=============

You need to be using Sphinx and reStructuredText.

Installation
============

The Sphinx CSV filter plugin is available as a pip_ package.

To install, run::

    $ pip install sphinx-csv-filter

To update, run::

    $ pip install -U sphinx-csv-filter

Set Up
======

To include the extension, add this line to ``config.py`` in
your Sphinx project::

    extensions = ['crate.sphinx.csv']

If you're using other extensions, edit the existing list, or add this::

    extensions.append('crate.sphinx.csv')

Use
===

This plugin adds the following options to the csv-table_ directive:

``:included_cols:``
    This is a comma-separated list of column indexes to include in the output.

``:include:``
    This option takes a Python dict specifying the column index (starting at
    zero) and a regular expression. Rows are included if the columnar value
    matches the supplied regular expression.
    If multiple filters are given, row is included if all columns match.

``:exclude:``
    This option takes a Python dict specifying the column index (starting at
    zero) and a regular expression. Rows are excluded if the columnar value
    matches the supplied regular expression.
    If multiple filters are given, row is excluded if any columns match.

If a row matches an ``:include:`` as well as an ``:exclude:`` filter, the row
with be excluded.

Here's an example::

    .. csv-filter:: Example Table
       :header: Company,Contact,Country,Attend?
       :file: example.csv
       :exclude: {3: '(?i)Y\w*'}

In this example, rows from ``example.csv`` will be omitted from the output if the regular expression ``(?i)Y\w*`` matches value of the ``Attend?`` column.

Contributing
============

This project is primarily maintained by Crate.io_, but we welcome community
contributions!

See the `developer docs`_ and the `contribution docs`_ for more information.

Help
====

Looking for more help?

- Check out our `support channels`_

.. _contribution docs: CONTRIBUTING.rst
.. _Crate.io: http://crate.io/
.. _csv-table: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#csv-table
.. _developer docs: DEVELOP.rst
.. _pip: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip
.. _reStructuredText: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/rest.html
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/
.. _support channels: https://crate.io/support/
